 The Federal High Court in Lagos, yesterday, ordered the forfeiture of multi-billion naira assets allegedly belonging to a former Enugu State governor, Dr Chimaroke Nnamani. Among the forfeited assets are undeveloped properties and transmission equipment of Rainbownet Limited; properties of Hill Gate Investment Limited/Cuena Phones Limited; assets of Cosmo 105.5FM, and 22 duplexes at Ebeano Estate (now Fidelity Estate). Others are Rainbownet’s shares in Zenith Bank and Guaranty Trust Bank, with a combined account balance of N4.6 million; as well as monies in its bank accounts worth about N34.8 million. The balances are in different accounts with GTBank (N313,700); Sterling Bank (N986,958); Ecobank (N24.5 million); First City Monument Bank (N3.8 million) and Zenith Bank (N761,156). EFCC said it is awaiting details of balances in Rainbownet’s 10 accounts with Access Bank. Rainbownet’s undeveloped properties forfeited include seven plots at Independence Layout; 567.96 square meters (sqm) at Abakpa; 574.96sqm at Emene and 2,951.98sqm at Achara Layout. Others to be forfeited include thousands of square metres of properties at Abia State, namely Ogbor Hill, Abayi (one and half plots), Port Harcourt Road, Ariaria, Umuagari and Assannetu as well as Abakiliki, Ebonyi State (one plot).  Others are in Onitsha, Anambra State, such as those at Barracks (one plot), Nkpor, Awada, Fegge (one plot); as well as 2,200.06 square miles of land at Okpumo, Awka. The company is also to lose 693.636 square metres of undeveloped property located opposite the War Museum, Umuahia. Assets of Rainbownet Communications Limited, including Central Switch Room, Microwave Radio, Rectifier, Microwave Backhaul Transmission, among others, at various locations in Anambra, Ebonyi, Enugu, Abia and Imo states are to be forfeited. The former senator was charged along with his former aide, Sunday Anyaogu, and six firms – Rainbownet, Hillgate Nigeria, Cosmos FM, Capital City Automobile Nig Ltd, Renaissance University Teaching Hospital and Mea Mater Elizabeth High School. Justice Mohammed Yunusa later split Nnamani’s trial from his co-accused as he was abroad receiving treatment. EFCC re-arraigned them on 105 counts of money laundering and economic crimes involving about N4.5 billion. Part of the alleged laundered money was from the Excess Crude Oil funds meant for some local government areas, including Aninri, Enugu South, Agwu, Igbo Etiti and Isi Uzor, which was allegedly transferred to Nnamani’s bank account in the United States. The crime was allegedly committed while Nnamani was governor between 1999 and 2007. The defendants pleaded not guilty. However, after the trial was split, four of the companies on May 19 pleaded guilty to a 10-count amended charge through their counsel.