 Many people these days appear to return to nature to either take care of their health problems or simply to maintain their bodies. The cucumber fruit readily comes to mind as one of nature’s gifts that is used by many people for different purposes. Cucumber, a long and green-skinned fruit with watery flesh come from the plant with the botanical name of “Cucumis Sativus” and originated over ten thousand years ago in southern Asia. It was later introduced to India and other parts of Asia by early explorers. Known as a cooling agent due to its high content of water, cucumber shares the same roots with such other fruits as the pumpkin and watermelon. Why do people buy cucumber? Besides eating cucumber Amenaghawon Okao, a baker use cucumber as a beauty regime. “I use it for my salad and sandwiches. I also use it on a daily basis to reduce eye puffiness” For Ngozi Azike, cucumber has loads of benefits. “I eat cucumber everyday because I’m told it aids digestion and it’s an antioxidant.  I also use it to maintain my weight” Ebunlorun Yinka said, ‘Sometimes I use it for salad but most times I prefer to eat it like that. I always have cucumber in my fridge because I know it’s very good for the body” Research shows that cucumber has a high nutritional value as it is a very good source of Vitamin C; it is also a good source of vitamin A, potassium, magnesium and manganese, among others. Cucumber is also known for its huge medical benefits experts say the potassium content in cucumber helps to deal with high or low blood pressure. In addition cucumber is also useful in treating kidney, liver, pancreatic and urinary bladder diseases. For the women, cucumber is used as an agent of beautification as it can be used to enhance or beautify the skin because of its cooling and cleansing property. It helps to sooth and soften the skin and is useful in reducing eye puffiness, dark circles and wrinkles. Some cosmetics shops now sell finished products made from cucumber. In view of all its goodness, you will wise to include cucumber in your diet from today and enjoy the huge benefits of cucumber, a gift from nature.