 You don’t have to look for too long a time before you see them. They are common sights around motor parks, markets, roadside, bus stops and residential areas. The women and girls carry a basin containing several bottles of herbs firmly balanced on their heads. The men on the other hand move around with dried stick-like herbs stuffed inside small plastic bottles. They all go by one name, ‘Agbo’ and its said to cure all manner of diseases.  Obviously this Agbo does not live in Calabar as it’s also seen on the streets of Lagos where its efficacy enjoys widespread acceptance even among orthodox medical practitioners some of whom had, before now, treated it with derision. The fact that this herbal mixture is prepared to accommodate people with different health problems is a major source worry to many who have never ceased to question its efficacy. Some however do not mind as the drug to them is not only tested but trusted. Why the over-reliance on Agbo? Oladele Rilwan, a civil servant who grew up taking ‘Agbo’ insists a daily dose keeps the doctor away and makes him strong the African way. “Since I was a child, I do take ‘Agbo’, that’s what they trained me with. Anytime I or my daughter feels sick, we take Agbo without waiting for the sickness to knock us down. I can’t remember going to see a doctor and it makes me stronger to handle my wife too”. Rilwan stated Gbolagan Ikumapayi, an unemployed graduate takes the herbal mixture more as a preventive measure against diseases. He said, ‘Agbo’ is very good as it goes faster through the veins. It’s bitter but better than drugs or injections. My mum was diabetic, she took ‘Agbo’ and it worked for her. I take it once in a while to cleanse my system then, I’ll urinate everything. Because of this, I hardly fall sick”.  Benjamin Karo, a police officer says ‘Agbo’ is always a plan B he opts for when the initial plan fails. “Sometimes when English medicine is not giving me results, I switch to ‘Agbo’ and I feel better. I take it only when the drugs I’m given is not working well,” Benjamin said. Ngozi Azike, a NAFDAC staff drinks only homemade ‘Agbo’ and she says it’s better and safer for hygienic reasons advising others to follow suit. “My mother prepared it for me when I was much younger, especially for malaria. I don’t drink the ones sold on the streets because I can’t say how it’s made. Some use bad plants or dirty water. I will advise anyone who wants to drink ‘Agbo’ to learn how to make them, it’s easy and the herbs are cheap” she said.  But its different strokes for different folks as some say ‘Agbo’ is no medicine rather they called it concoctions that are capable of creating more problems that it’s required to solve. Chibuzor Amakwe, an MTN staff is mindful when it comes to what she ingests. She said, “I’m very careful what I drink. So someone by the roadside or some unknown company offers you unverified herbs to cure all kinds of diseases and you buy it for yourself and loved ones? That’s so sick!”  Martins Odunze, an insurance marketer insists he’s no laboratory specimen and as such ‘Agbo’ is a no go area for him. “I hear it cures malaria, excess sugar, gbogbotigo, one drug that cures a thousand sicknesses. My life is not for experiment abeg, I no wan die yet. People buy it because it’s cheap and drink it every day. If it works, why drink it every day?” he queried. Chidiebere Odawu, a Natural health therapist advises local herbs manufacturers to conduct extensive research into the materials used in the production of these local mixtures. She said, “The problem with ‘Agbo’ is that the people preparing it do no research. What they know is based on what they saw their grandparents do and their dosage is not regulated. They will tell you to take a full mug whereas just one spoon is enough to take care of the problem.  “Plants have chemicals in them and when you gulp everything, this could have side effects. Its good one meets an ‘Agbo’ manufacturer that is knowledgeable and has done a little bit of research. So, education for local herbs manufacturers is a must.” she advised. It is always good and advisable to choose your poison wisely, stick to what works best for you and while you are at it, have it at the back of your mind that health is not just wealth, it is everything.